[Freshness] US-1953530: Refresh top articles by PV - .NET and Languages Content (3) (#30093)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/collections/thread-safe/index.md

---
title: "Thread-Safe Collections"
description: Get started with thread-safe collections using the System.Collections.Concurrent namespace in .NET, which includes thread-safe and scalable collection classes.
ms.date: "07/20/2022"
ms.custom: devdivchpfy22
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "thread-safe collections, overview"
ms.assetid: 2e7ca21f-786c-4367-96be-0cf3f3dcc6bd
---
# Thread-Safe Collections

> The .NET Framework 4 introduces the <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent?displayProperty=nameWithType> namespace, which includes several collection classes that are both thread-safe and scalable. Multiple threads can safely and efficiently add or remove items from these collections, without requiring additional synchronization in user code. When you write new code, use the concurrent collection classes to write multiple threads to the collection concurrently. If you're only reading from a shared collection, then you can use the classes in the <xref:System.Collections.Generic?displayProperty=nameWithType> namespace. We recommend that you don't use 1.0 collection classes unless you're required to target the .NET Framework 1.1 or earlier runtime.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET Framework 4 introduced the <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent?displayProperty=nameWithType> namespace, which includes several collection classes that are both thread-safe and scalable. Multiple threads can safely and efficiently add or remove items from these collections, without requiring additional synchronization in user code. When you write new code, use the concurrent collection classes to write multiple threads to the collection concurrently. If you're only reading from a shared collection, then you can use the classes in the <xref:System.Collections.Generic?displayProperty=nameWithType> namespace.
```

Author: Ok, updated the content.

  
## Thread Synchronization in the .NET Framework 1.0 and 2.0 Collections  

>  The collections introduced in the .NET Framework 1.0 are found in the <xref:System.Collections?displayProperty=nameWithType> namespace. These collections, which include the commonly used <xref:System.Collections.ArrayList> and <xref:System.Collections.Hashtable>, provide some thread-safety through the `Synchronized` property, which returns a thread-safe wrapper around the collection. The wrapper works by locking the entire collection on every add or remove operation. Therefore, each thread that's attempting to access the collection must wait for its turn to take the one lock. This process isn't scalable and can cause significant performance degradation for large collections. Also, the design isn't protected from race conditions. For more information, see [Synchronization in Generic Collections](/archive/blogs/bclteam/synchronization-in-generic-collections-brian-grunkemeyer).  

Author: Ok, updated it.

  
 The collection classes introduced in the .NET Framework 2.0 are found in the <xref:System.Collections.Generic?displayProperty=nameWithType> namespace. These include <xref:System.Collections.Generic.List%601>, <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Dictionary%602>, and so on. These classes provide improved type safety and performance compared to the .NET Framework 1.0 classes. However, the .NET Framework 2.0 collection classes don't provide any thread synchronization; user code must provide all synchronization when items are added or removed on multiple threads concurrently.  
  

>  We recommend that you use the concurrent collections classes in the .NET Framework 4. Because they provide not only the type safety of the .NET Framework 2.0 collection classes, but also more efficient and complete thread safety than the .NET Framework 1.0 collections provide.  

Author: Ok, updated it.

  
## Fine-Grained Locking and Lock-Free Mechanisms  

 Some of the concurrent collection types use lightweight synchronization mechanisms such as <xref:System.Threading.SpinLock>, <xref:System.Threading.SpinWait>, <xref:System.Threading.SemaphoreSlim>, and <xref:System.Threading.CountdownEvent>, which are new in the .NET Framework 4. These synchronization types typically use *busy spinning* for brief periods before they put the thread into a true Wait state. When wait times are expected to be short, spinning is far less computationally expensive than waiting, which involves an expensive kernel transition. For collection classes that use spinning, this efficiency means that multiple threads can add and remove items at a high rate. For more information about spinning vs. blocking, see [SpinLock](../../threading/spinlock.md) and [SpinWait](../../threading/spinwait.md).  
  

>  The <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentQueue%601> and <xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentStack%601> classes don't use locks at all. Instead, they rely on <xref:System.Threading.Interlocked> operations to achieve thread-safety.  

Author: Ok, updated it.

|<xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.ConcurrentBag%601>|Thread-safe implementation of an unordered collection of elements.|  
|<xref:System.Collections.Concurrent.IProducerConsumerCollection%601>|The interface that a type must implement to be used in a `BlockingCollection`.|  
  

> ## Related sections  

Author: Updated to "Related Articles".
